.TH MAPS-LOGGER.ENV 5 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
maps-logger.env \- environment configuration for the Maps MQTT value logger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B maps-logger.service
systemd unit reads
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
as an EnvironmentFile.  The file configures the MQTT broker subscription, output format,
output directory, and disk-space warning threshold.
.PP
Use one
.B NAME=value
assignment per line.  Empty lines and lines beginning with
.B #
are ignored by systemd.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_URL
MQTT v5 broker URL.  This value is required.  The packaged configuration uses
.BR tcp://127.0.0.1:1883 .
For complete Maps envelope metadata, the logger is normally connected locally to a Maps
server with the Message-JSON transformation enabled for localhost traffic.
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_TOPIC
MQTT topic filter.  The packaged default is
.BR /# .
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_QOS
Subscription QoS.  Valid values are 0, 1, and 2.  The default is 1.
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_FORMAT
Output format.  Valid values are
.B csv
and
.BR json .
JSON output uses the
.B .ndjson
extension.  The logger code defaults to CSV when the variable is absent; the packaged
environment file currently selects JSON.
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_OUTPUT_DIR
Directory for hourly rotating output files.  The default is
.BR /var/log/maps-logger .
.TP
.B MAPS_LOGGER_DISK_WARN_MB
Write a warning when free space on the output filesystem falls below this many megabytes.
The value must be a positive integer.  The default is 500.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
MAPS_LOGGER_URL=tcp://127.0.0.1:1883
MAPS_LOGGER_TOPIC=/#
MAPS_LOGGER_QOS=1
MAPS_LOGGER_FORMAT=json
MAPS_LOGGER_OUTPUT_DIR=/var/log/maps-logger
MAPS_LOGGER_DISK_WARN_MB=500
.EE
.SH APPLYING CHANGES
After editing the file, restart the service:
.PP
.EX
sudo systemctl restart maps-logger
.EE
.PP
Individual settings may instead be overridden with a systemd drop-in created by:
.PP
.EX
sudo systemctl edit maps-logger
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
Primary service environment file.  It is installed as a Debian conffile and is preserved
across normal package upgrades.
.TP
.I /var/log/maps-logger/
Default output directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-logger (8),
.BR systemd.exec (5),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
