.TH MAPS-MAVLINK-CONVERT 1 "23 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-mavlink-convert \- convert MAVLink captures to the Maps MUDP format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-mavlink-convert
.BI --input " file ..."
.BI --output " file"
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-mavlink-convert
reads MAVLink TLOG, MUDP, legacy DAT, or raw captures and writes a versioned Maps UDP capture. Multiple timestamped inputs are merged chronologically. The first output frame is timestamped at zero and later packet spacing is preserved.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -i " file ...", " --input " "file ..."
One or more input files. Required.
.TP
.BI -o " file", " --output " "file"
Output MUDP file. Required. Existing output is replaced.
.TP
.BI --format " format"
Input format: auto, tlog, mudp, legacy-dat, or raw. The default is auto.
.TP
.BI --start-offset " offset"
Skip frames before the supplied offset.
.TP
.BI --end-offset " offset"
Stop after the supplied offset.
.TP
.BI --raw-delay " offset"
Delay between frames in a raw stream. The default is zero.
.TP
.BI --source-address " address"
Source address stored in generated MUDP records. The default is 127.0.0.1.
.TP
.BI --source-port " port"
Source port stored in generated MUDP records. The default is zero.
.TP
.BR --flush-each-packet , " --no-flush-each-packet"
Enable or disable flushing after every generated packet. Flushing is enabled by default.
.TP
.BI --system-id " id[,id...]"
Include only matching MAVLink system IDs.
.TP
.BI --component-id " id[,id...]"
Include only matching MAVLink component IDs.
.TP
.BI --message-id " id[,id...]"
Include only matching MAVLink message IDs.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
maps-mavlink-convert --input flight.tlog --output flight.mudp
.EE
.PP
.EX
maps-mavlink-convert --input vehicle-1.tlog vehicle-2.tlog \
  --output mission.mudp --start-offset 03:35 --end-offset 05:00
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-mavlink-replay (1),
.BR maps-mavlink-inspect (1),
.BR maps-udp-capture (1),
.BR maps-udp-replay (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
