.TH MAPS-MAVLINK-TLOG-SYSTEM-ID 1 "23 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-mavlink-tlog-system-id \- rewrite a MAVLink system ID in a TLOG
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-mavlink-tlog-system-id
.I input.tlog output.tlog old-system-id new-system-id
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-mavlink-tlog-system-id
copies a MAVLink TLOG while replacing matching source system IDs. MAVLink 1 and unsigned MAVLink 2 checksums are recalculated using the selected dialect.
.PP
Original TLOG timestamps and all non-target frames are preserved. Signed MAVLink 2 frames cannot be rewritten without their signing key and cause the command to fail.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I input.tlog
Input TLOG file.
.TP
.I output.tlog
Output TLOG file. It must differ from the input file.
.TP
.I old-system-id
System ID to replace, from 0 through 255.
.TP
.I new-system-id
Replacement system ID, from 0 through 255.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --start-offset " offset"
Rewrite matching frames at or after this offset from the first TLOG record. The default is zero.
.TP
.BI --end-offset " offset"
Stop rewriting after this offset. Later records are copied unchanged.
.TP
.BI --dialect-file " file"
Load CRC-extra definitions from a MAVLink dialect XML file instead of the built-in common dialect. Included XML files are resolved relative to the dialect file.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Rewrite system ID 1 to 10 throughout a TLOG:
.PP
.EX
maps-mavlink-tlog-system-id original.tlog rewritten.tlog 1 10
.EE
.PP
Rewrite only between 5 and 20 minutes:
.PP
.EX
maps-mavlink-tlog-system-id original.tlog rewritten.tlog 1 10 \
  --start-offset 05:00 --end-offset 20:00
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/mavlink_tools.jar
MAVLink tools JAR installed by the maps-apps package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-mavlink-tlog-tail (1),
.BR maps-mavlink-inspect (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
