.TH MAPS-MAVLINK-REPLAY 1 "23 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-mavlink-replay \- replay MAVLink capture files to UDP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-mavlink-replay
.BI --input " file ..."
.BI --target-address " address"
.BI --target-port " port"
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-mavlink-replay
reads one or more MAVLink capture files and sends their frames to a UDP destination. Multiple inputs are merged onto one timeline so vehicle logs remain synchronised.
.PP
Supported formats are QGroundControl TLOG, Maps MUDP captures, legacy comma-separated Base64 DAT captures, and raw MAVLink byte streams.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -i " file ...", " --input " "file ..."
One or more input files. Required.
.TP
.BI --target-address " address"
Destination host name or IP address. Required.
.TP
.BI --target-port " port"
Destination UDP port. Required.
.TP
.BI --format " format"
Input format: auto, tlog, mudp, legacy-dat, or raw. The default is auto.
.TP
.BI --speed " factor"
Replay speed multiplier. The default is 1.0. A value of 2 replays at twice the recorded speed.
.TP
.B --loop
Restart all inputs together after replay completes.
.TP
.BI --start-offset " offset"
Skip frames before the supplied offset.
.TP
.BI --end-offset " offset"
Stop after the supplied offset.
.TP
.BI --raw-delay " offset"
Delay between frames in a raw stream. The default is zero.
.TP
.BI --system-id " id[,id...]"
Replay only matching MAVLink system IDs.
.TP
.BI --component-id " id[,id...]"
Replay only matching MAVLink component IDs.
.TP
.BI --message-id " id[,id...]"
Replay only matching MAVLink message IDs.
.TP
.B --verbose
Print information for every transmitted frame.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH OFFSETS
Offsets accept seconds, MM:SS, HH:MM:SS, or an integer followed by ms, s, m, or h.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
maps-mavlink-replay --input flight.tlog \
  --target-address 127.0.0.1 --target-port 14550
.EE
.PP
.EX
maps-mavlink-replay --input vehicle-1.tlog vehicle-2.tlog \
  --target-address 127.0.0.1 --target-port 14450 \
  --start-offset 01:15 --end-offset 05:00 --speed 2 --loop
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/mavlink_tools.jar
MAVLink tools JAR installed by the maps-apps package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-mavlink-inspect (1),
.BR maps-mavlink-convert (1),
.BR maps-udp-capture (1),
.BR maps-udp-replay (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
