.TH MAPS-LOGGER 8 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
maps-logger \- operate the Maps MQTT value logger service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B systemctl
.RI { start | stop | restart | status }
.B maps-logger
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-logger.service
runs the Maps MQTT value logger as a standalone systemd service.  It subscribes to a Maps
MQTT v5 topic and writes selected message envelope fields to hourly rotating CSV or NDJSON
files.
.PP
The Debian package installs and enables the service, but does not start the logger on its
first installation.  Review
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
and then start the service explicitly.  If the service is already active during a package
upgrade, the package restarts it to load the new JAR.
.PP
A separate timer,
.BR maps-logger-compress.timer ,
runs hourly and compresses CSV and NDJSON files older than two hours.  Files are not deleted
automatically.
.SH INITIAL SETUP
Edit the service environment:
.PP
.EX
sudo editor /etc/maps-logger/env
.EE
.PP
Start the logger:
.PP
.EX
sudo systemctl start maps-logger
.EE
.PP
The Maps server should transform local MQTT deliveries to Message-JSON so that envelope
timestamps, QoS, protocol, session, and metadata fields are available to the logger.
.SH SERVICE MANAGEMENT
.TP
Check service status:
.EX
systemctl status maps-logger --no-pager
.EE
.TP
Follow service output:
.EX
journalctl -u maps-logger -f
.EE
.TP
Restart after configuration changes:
.EX
sudo systemctl restart maps-logger
.EE
.TP
Stop the service:
.EX
sudo systemctl stop maps-logger
.EE
.TP
Inspect the compression timer:
.EX
systemctl status maps-logger-compress.timer --no-pager
.EE
.SH OUTPUT
Hourly files are written below the configured output directory.  Example names are:
.PP
.EX
/var/log/maps-logger/maps-2026-05-27-14.csv
/var/log/maps-logger/maps-2026-05-27-15.ndjson
/var/log/maps-logger/maps-2026-05-27-14.csv.gz
.EE
.PP
The logger records local receive time, server timestamp, server time in milliseconds,
calculated latency, topic, content type, identifier, QoS, protocol, session identifier, and
metadata version.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If output records contain missing timestamps or metadata, verify the Maps server has a
Message-JSON transformation for local MQTT connections.
.PP
To inspect recent failures:
.PP
.EX
systemctl status maps-logger --no-pager
journalctl -u maps-logger -n 100 --no-pager
.EE
.PP
Disk-space warnings are written to the service journal when available space falls below
.BR MAPS_LOGGER_DISK_WARN_MB .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/mqtt_logger.jar
Logger executable installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.TP
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
Service configuration.
.TP
.I /var/log/maps-logger/
Default output directory.
.TP
.I /lib/systemd/system/maps-logger.service
Logger systemd unit.
.TP
.I /lib/systemd/system/maps-logger-compress.service
One-shot compression service.
.TP
.I /lib/systemd/system/maps-logger-compress.timer
Hourly compression timer.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-logger.env (5),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
