.TH MAPS-UDP-REPLAY 1 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-udp-replay \- replay captured UDP datagrams to a target
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-udp-replay
.BI --input " file"
.BI --target-address " address"
.BI --target-port " port"
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-udp-replay
reads a Maps UDP capture file and sends each recorded payload to one target UDP address and
port.  By default it preserves the spacing between captured packets and replays at normal
speed.
.PP
The original source address and source port are retained in the capture file for diagnostics,
but replayed packets are emitted from a new local UDP socket to the configured target.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --input " file"
Input file created by
.BR maps-udp-capture (1).
Required.
.TP
.BI --target-address " address"
Destination host name or IP address.  Required.
.TP
.BI --target-port " port"
Destination UDP port.  Required.
.TP
.BI --preserve-timing "[=boolean]"
Preserve recorded packet spacing.  The default is true.  Use
.B --preserve-timing=false
to send records without intentional delays.
.TP
.BI --speed " factor"
Replay speed multiplier.  The default is 1.0.  A value of 2 halves recorded delays; a value
of 0.5 doubles them.  Non-positive values are treated as 1.0 by the current implementation.
.TP
.B --loop
Restart replay from the beginning after the final packet and continue until interrupted.
.TP
.B --hex-dump
Print each sent payload as hexadecimal in addition to the packet summary.
.TP
.B --quiet
Disable per-packet logging.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Replay a capture to localhost at the recorded rate:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-replay --input nmea.mudp \
  --target-address 127.0.0.1 --target-port 10120
.EE
.PP
Replay ten times faster and loop continuously:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-replay --input mavlink.mudp \
  --target-address 192.0.2.20 --target-port 14550 \
  --speed 10 --loop
.EE
.PP
Send all records immediately:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-replay --input capture.mudp \
  --target-address 127.0.0.1 --target-port 14480 \
  --preserve-timing=false
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/udp_helpers.jar
Shared UDP helper JAR installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-udp-capture (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
