.TH MAPS-UDP-CAPTURE 1 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-udp-capture \- capture UDP datagrams to a replayable file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-udp-capture
.BI --port " port"
.BI --output " file"
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-udp-capture
binds a UDP socket, receives datagrams, and writes them to a Maps UDP capture file.  Each
record includes a monotonic timestamp, source address, source port, and payload.
.PP
The capture file begins with the ASCII magic value
.B MUDP
and format version 1.  It is intended for use with
.BR maps-udp-replay (1).
.PP
Press Ctrl-C to stop capture and close the output file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --bind-address " address"
Local address to bind.  The default is
.BR 0.0.0.0 .
.TP
.BI --port " port"
UDP port to capture.  Required.
.TP
.BI --output " file"
Output capture file.  Required.  An existing file is replaced.
.TP
.BI --buffer-size " bytes"
Maximum receive buffer allocated for each UDP packet.  The default is 65535 bytes.
Datagrams larger than the selected buffer may be truncated by the socket receive operation.
.TP
.BI --flush-each-packet "[=boolean]"
Flush the capture file after every packet.  The default is true.  Use
.B --flush-each-packet=false
to favour throughput over immediate durability.
.TP
.B --hex-dump
Print each captured payload as hexadecimal in addition to the packet summary.
.TP
.B --quiet
Disable per-packet logging.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Capture all traffic arriving on UDP port 10120:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-capture --port 10120 --output nmea.mudp
.EE
.PP
Bind only to localhost and suppress packet logging:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-capture --bind-address 127.0.0.1 --port 14550 \
  --output mavlink.mudp --quiet
.EE
.PP
Capture with hexadecimal diagnostics:
.PP
.EX
maps-udp-capture --port 14480 --output stickleback.mudp --hex-dump
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/udp_helpers.jar
Shared UDP helper JAR installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-udp-replay (1),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
