.TH MAPS-TOP 1 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-top \- display live Maps server statistics in a terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-top
.RI [ server-url
.RI [ username
.RI [ password ]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-top
opens a full-screen terminal dashboard and polls the Maps REST API for server information,
server status, destination statistics, and interface statistics.
.PP
The default server URL is
.BR http://localhost:8080 .
The command authenticates through the Maps REST login endpoint and refreshes the displayed
statistics while it remains connected.
.PP
The lower display alternates automatically between destination and interface information.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I server-url
Base URL of the Maps server REST interface.  The default is
.BR http://localhost:8080 .
.TP
.I username
Maps REST API user name.
.TP
.I password
Maps REST API password.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B q
Quit and restore the terminal.
.SH DISPLAY
The dashboard includes server time, uptime, CPU time, connection state, storage size, free
and used memory, build information, thread status, topic totals, destination activity, and
interface activity.
.SH EXAMPLES
Connect to a local server:
.PP
.EX
maps-top
.EE
.PP
Connect to a remote server:
.PP
.EX
maps-top http://maps-edge:8080 operator secret
.EE
.SH SECURITY
The current interface accepts the password as a positional command-line argument.  Command
arguments may be visible to other users through process inspection and may be retained in
shell history.  Avoid placing reusable administrative credentials directly on a shared
system command line.
.SH TERMINAL REQUIREMENTS
The command requires an interactive terminal supported by Lanterna.  Run it directly from a
terminal rather than from a non-interactive service or redirected output stream.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/top.jar
Executable JAR installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
