.TH MAPS-AUDIT-VIEWER 1 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-audit-viewer \- inspect and verify Maps audit journals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-audit-viewer
.I journal-path
.RI [ "--public-key" " public-key.pem" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-audit-viewer
reads a Maps append-only audit journal and prints each record with its verification status.
The input may be a single JSON Lines journal file or a journal root directory.
.PP
Without a public key, the viewer verifies sequence ordering, previous-record hash linkage,
and record hash integrity.  When an Ed25519 public key is supplied, it also verifies record
signatures.
.PP
A failed record is reported as invalid.  Records after a broken link should also be treated
as untrusted because the audit chain is no longer continuous.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --public-key " public-key.pem"
Read an Ed25519 public key from the specified PEM file and verify audit record signatures.
This option must follow the journal path.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I journal-path
Path to one audit journal file or to a journal root directory.
.SH OUTPUT
The command prints a table containing record position, sequence number, verification status,
timestamp, correlation data, actor, source, action, outcome, message information, and a
validation result.  A summary reports the total, valid, and invalid record counts.
.SH EXAMPLES
Verify a single journal without signature checking:
.PP
.EX
maps-audit-viewer /var/lib/maps/audit/journal/2026-05-25/audit-2026-05-25-000001.jsonl
.EE
.PP
Verify a journal and its signatures:
.PP
.EX
maps-audit-viewer /var/lib/maps/audit/journal \
  --public-key /opt/maps/conf/audit-public-key.pem
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/maps/audit/journal/
Typical Maps audit journal root.
.TP
.I /opt/maps/conf/audit-public-key.pem
Typical audit verification public key location.
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/audit_viewer.jar
Executable JAR installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
