.TH MAPS-APPS 7 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "Miscellaneous Information"
.SH NAME
maps-apps \- operational and diagnostic applications for MapsMessaging
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B maps-apps
Debian package installs a collection of MapsMessaging administration, inspection, capture,
and replay tools.  Application JARs are installed below
.I /opt/maps/apps
and command launchers are installed in
.IR /usr/bin .
.PP
The package depends on the Maps server package and includes the Maps MQTT value logger
systemd service.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR maps-audit-viewer (1)
Inspect and verify append-only Maps audit journals.
.TP
.BR maps-canbus-replay (1)
Replay NDJSON CAN records to a SocketCAN interface.
.TP
.BR maps-udp-capture (1)
Capture UDP datagrams to a replayable Maps UDP file.
.TP
.BR maps-udp-replay (1)
Replay a Maps UDP capture file to a target address and port.
.TP
.BR maps-top (1)
Display live Maps server statistics in a full-screen terminal.
.SH SERVICES
.TP
.BR maps-logger (8)
Subscribe to Maps MQTT messages and write rotating CSV or NDJSON logs.
.TP
.BR maps-logger.env (5)
Configure the Maps MQTT value logger service.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/
Installed application JARs.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/maps-*
Installed command launchers.
.TP
.I /etc/maps-logger/env
Maps logger service configuration.
.TP
.I /var/log/maps-logger/
Default Maps logger output directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR maps-audit-viewer (1),
.BR maps-canbus-replay (1),
.BR maps-udp-capture (1),
.BR maps-udp-replay (1),
.BR maps-top (1),
.BR maps-logger (8),
.BR maps-logger.env (5)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
