.TH MAPS-CANBUS-REPLAY 1 "20 July 2026" "maps-apps 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
maps-canbus-replay \- replay recorded CAN frames to a SocketCAN interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maps-canbus-replay
.BI --dir " directory"
.BI --interface " interface"
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maps-canbus-replay
loads CAN records from all
.B .ndjson
files below a directory, sorts the records by timestamp, and writes the resulting frames to
a Linux SocketCAN interface.
.PP
Input records may be direct Maps envelopes or wrapper records whose
.B opaqueData
field contains a Base64-encoded JSON envelope.  Each replay envelope must provide a timestamp
through
.B meta.time_ms
or
.BR timestamp ,
and a
.B payload
object containing
.BR canId ,
.BR extended ,
.BR dlc ,
and Base64-encoded
.BR data .
.PP
Press Ctrl-C to stop an active replay.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --dir " directory"
Directory to scan recursively for
.B .ndjson
files.  Required.
.TP
.BI --interface " interface"
SocketCAN interface to write, for example
.B vcan0
or
.BR can0 .
Required.
.TP
.BI --iface " interface"
Alias for
.BR --interface .
.TP
.B --loop
Restart the replay from the beginning after the final record.
.TP
.BI --speed " factor"
Replay speed multiplier.  The default is 1.0.  A value of 10 replays timestamp gaps ten
times faster.  The value must be greater than zero.
.TP
.BI --max-wait-ms " milliseconds"
Accepted maximum wait setting.  The value must be zero or greater.
See
.B LIMITATIONS
for current behaviour.
.TP
.BR -h , " --help"
Display usage information and exit.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
The loader scans recursively and accepts one JSON object per line.  Invalid records are
reported to standard error and skipped.
.PP
A direct record has this general shape:
.PP
.EX
{"meta":{"time_ms":1784500000000},"payload":{"canId":291,
 "extended":false,"dlc":8,"data":"AQIDBAUGBwg="}}
.EE
.PP
The
.B data
field is Base64 encoded.  DLC values from 0 through 64 are accepted, allowing both classic
CAN and CAN FD records.
.SH EXAMPLES
Replay records to a virtual CAN interface:
.PP
.EX
maps-canbus-replay --dir ./captures --interface vcan0
.EE
.PP
Replay continuously at ten times the recorded speed:
.PP
.EX
maps-canbus-replay --dir ./captures --interface can0 --loop --speed 10
.EE
.PP
Replay without intentional timestamp delays after the current limitation is addressed:
.PP
.EX
maps-canbus-replay --dir ./captures --interface vcan0 --max-wait-ms 0
.EE
.SH REQUIREMENTS
The target SocketCAN interface must exist and be up.  The invoking user must have permission
to open and write the interface.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The current command parses
.B --max-wait-ms
but the replay runner does not yet apply that value when calculating delays.  Timestamp gaps
are currently controlled only by
.BR --speed .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /opt/maps/apps/canbus_replay.jar
Executable JAR installed by the maps-apps Debian package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip-link (8),
.BR maps-apps (7)
.SH AUTHOR
MapsMessaging B.V.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at the Maps-Messaging/maps_apps GitHub repository.
